Natasha,

Are you interested in the identity of Thomas Paine, the supposedly
well-connected FBI agent behind True Pundit? I am quite confident that
he is a 22-year-old scam artist named Jack Moore with absolutely no
connection to the FBI. The site is very involved with Trump Jr., Michael Flynn,
Wikileaks, and other Russian connections that may interest you. Here is
my research to get you started:

Summary: The @true_pundit account used to have the handle @zoolobby and
zoolobby.com was a website that publicly was run by a 20-year-old "CEO"
Jack Moore, also of Philadelphia. And truepundit.com pretty clearly
plagarized the only article still visible from that obscure website or
(more likely) the author was the same person.

First, the @true_pundit and @thomas1774paine accounts he uses have no
tweets before about June 2016 when Truepundit.com launched. However,
there are old tweets to both of those accounts that reference @zoolobby
(for true_pundit) and @hockeyintel (for thomas1774paine). These tweets
strongly suggest that someone changed those old handles into the new
ones associated with True Pundit.

Second, there was a website created in late 2015 called zoolobby.com.
The website is gone, but a press release and Facebook page remain. The site
is very similar to what True Pundit would become, and Jack Moore (a
20-year-old of Philadelphia) takes full credit for the website.

Third, there is a hockey player of the right age from the Philadelphia
area who played in the USPHL in 2013-2014. The @hockeyintel account is 
tweeted at by several accounts associated
with players from that league. And elite prospects tweets at
@hockeyintel suggesting a way to add his profile to the site. So it seems likely that @zoolobby and @hockeyintel were the same
person, but there isn't much info about @hockeyintel.

The important question is whether @hockeyintel/@zoolobby and
@thomas1774paine/@true_pundit are the same person. Since both pairs seem
connected it is less likely that True Pundit simply bought some old
accounts that happened to be the same person. The @hockeyintel username
seems to have been used for political discussions as late as mid-March
2016 that seemed to build up @thomas1774paine's persona as a Trump
supporter. It is unclear why he would use a @hockeyintel handle if he
was a well-connected FBI agent planning to get involved in politics.

But the real convincing evidence is to compare the writing of
zoolobby.com and truepundit.com. The only article from zoolobby that
remains visible is the press release. In it the author, Jack Moore, uses
the phrase "never been provided to anyone: not the State Department; not
Congress; not the U.S. House Select Committee on Benghazi" and that
exact quote (in quotes) when googled
(https://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&ei=
8J0sW9naFZLW5gKot6DICw&q=%22never+been+provided+to+anyone%3A+not+the+
State+Department%3B+not+Congress%3B+not+the+U.S.+House+Select+Committee+
on+Benghazi%22&oq=%22never+been+provided+to+anyone%3A+not+the+State+
Department%3B+not+Congress%3B+not+the+U.S.+House+Select+Committee+on+
Benghazi%22) returns the press release from zoolobby as the first
result. The other results are all from True Pundit. Either True Pundit
plagarized a very obscure website by a 20-year-old hockey player that
existed for maybe a month, or Jack Moore is the author of the True
Pundit article. Also the first paragraph of the press release and the
first paragraph of this True Pundit article
(https://truepundit.com/hillary-clinton-google-created-covert-server-to-
cloak-benghazi-era-emails-from-lawmakers-fbi/) are very similar.

Of further interest is that Jack Moore also runs @yetisportswear which
used to be @hockeyyeti. The yetisportswear.com website sells hockey
gear. And there are plenty of Twitter complaints of stealing jersey
designs and not actually providing jerseys as promised. There are also
mentions of yetisportswear being the official supplier of the Isreali
national team. Very scammy. Also the @yetisportswear account has 20,000
followers. I'm guessing he bought followers and I wouldn't be surprised
if many of these fake followers also follow @thomas1774paine and/or
@true_pundit. The @yetisportswear account avoids politics, but the only
mention of Trump used #MakeAmericaGreatAgain and #Trump2016.

Another connection between Jack Moore and True Pundit is that the first
way Thomas Paine tried to make money off of his followers was to sell
True Pundit branded hockey jerseys. Seems like weird merchandise choice
unless selling hockey jerseys is another hustle. Thomas Paine also wrote
a book,
https://www.amazon.com/Trumped-Up-Ultimate-President-Collusion/dp/
0692914307, which has more 1-star reviews than would be expected from a
book by a conservative hero. Many of the negative reviews suggest it is
a scam because it apparently contains many pages of fully redacted text
as part of some supposed joke.

Jack Moore's personal Twitter account seems to be
https://twitter.com/jackmoorellc since it uses the same profile pic as
the LinkedIn page of Jack Moore CEO of Yetisportswear, but it is
private.

It is theoretically possible that maybe some real sources were fooled
and provided him info, but I think Snopes can update their article
(https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/julian-assange-drone-strike/) from
unproven to false.

All of this information was found today, so you might find even more
bombshells. But no matter what it is a very interesting story that needs
to be told. You have first crack at the story, but I would appreciate it
if you could quickly let me know either way whether you plan to break
the story or not.


